# Retinal-Vessel-Segmentation

Retinal vessel segmentation studies the morphological features of the retinal vessels, such as length, width, tortuosity, branching patterns, and angles. Variations of these features from normal characteristics could indicate possible related diseases that may impair human vision. Automatic segmentation and analysis of the vascular features allows faster and even automatic diagnosis of ophthalmologic diseases. However, while fast and accurate segmentation of the retinal vessels is a crucial prerequisite, segmentation and analysis of retinal vessels is time consuming and prone to various sources of error. Therefore using deep learning algorithms as an alternative has the potential to provide fast and accurate segmentation results. U-Net based architectures are very commonly used in solving such problems, but they lack precision in detecting very fine structures. Thus, the objective of this project is to improve accuracy of U-Net based image segmentation on retina vessels images by implementing attention mechanisms. 

## Dataset
We will be utilizing the DRIVE dataset, which consists of 40 TIF images obtained from a diabetic retinopathy screening program in The Netherlands. These color fundus images, each captured using 8 bits per color plane at 768 by 584 pixels, will be cropped into small snippets before being divided into training and testing sets. In addition, a mask image is available for every retinal image, indicating the region of interest. 

## Work Flow
Use U-Net as our baseline, evaluate the segmentation results and analyze which hyperparameters of the architecture may need to be modified or improved. Then, we will introduce spatial-wise/channel-wise attention blocks on top of U-Net based architecture to improve the segmentation performance, and try to interpret how the addition of attention mechanisms leads to performance boost. Our workflow will include: data preprocessing, data augmentation, model building, hyperparameter tuning, model performance comparison (F-1 score, Mean-IOU, Accuracy, AUC) and conclusion.
